Flash Operator Panel frequently asked questions:
------------------------------------------------

Q0: Do I have to run a webserver?

A0: Yes, its a Flash applet, it works from a web browser. You can use apache
    or any other webserver you like. It was tested with Windows, Linux, and
    Mac browsers. Its truly multiplatform!


Q1: Do I need to install additional Perl modules to run op_server.pl?

A1: No, it works without extra modules.


Q2: International characters are not displayed in button labels! Is it
    possible to use foreign characters?
 
A2: Yes, its possible. The flash movie will display international
    characters if you encode the text with UTF-8. You can encode the files
    from the command line using vi:

        vi -c ":wq! ++enc=utf8" op_buttons.cfg

    There is a downside to this. If you originate calls from the panel, the
    caller id will be set with the utf8 label (ilegible characters in the
    clid)

Q3: I do not want to mess with the caller id text and the asterisk database.
    Can I disable that feature?

A3: Sure, just modify op_style.cfg and set the show_clid_info variable to 0
    (zero).


Q4: When I try to open the webpage, the browser hangs. Whats wrong?

A4: The flash movie tries to read a file named 'variables.txt' that is
    generated by op_server.pl in the same directory where the .swf file
    lives. If this file is corrupted or incomplete, the flash movie might
    loop forever. Make sure you have the file in place. If its not there,
    you might have permissions problems or you forgot to run op_server.pl.


Q5: I changed the style op_style.cfg, but when I reload the page I don't 
    see the changes. What's up?

A5: The flash movie requests the file variables.txt when it starts. If your
    browser caches that file, you won't see the changes you made unless you
    clear your browser cache, or maybe just requesting the variables.txt
    file and hitting reload a couple of times. 

Q6: I do not like editing a text file to change a visual layout!

A6: Me neither, I dream of a visual layout configuration. But I do not have
    the time to make it happen. Maybe in the future. 

Q7: Where is the .fla file?
	
A7: The flash client is done with MING: you will find the perl source for
    generating a working .swf client under ming-source. 

	If you want the ancient .fla for the first versions, I will trade them
    for a new apple mac mini core duo or macbook pro.

